What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?

You create a .git directory with a standard set of subdirs to hold the metadata about the files in the directory & you prepare a list of files that you might want to track.

How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository? What value do you think it offers?

The staging area gives you a chance to try out how things look before you commit anything.  You can check that you've got exactly the changes you want in this commit using git diff &tc.

NOTES  "git diff" - compares the files in the working area & the files in the staging area
       "git diff --staged" compares the files in the working area with the commit that's currently in use
It's a good idea to use these routinely BEFORE creating a commit.
   	   "git reset --hard" drops all the changes to files in the working area, permanently - no way to get them back.
       ONLY use this when you've used git diff & git diff --staged to make sure you're getting rid of something you really want to get rid of.

How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical change?
You need to think strategically about what you've actually changed in the files you're looking at and make a judgement about what should be included as "one logical change".  Not always simple so the staging area gives you time to think about it.

What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history organized? How would branches help?
Where you need 2 or more versions... eg
where 2 or more people are working on the same code
where you have several ideas of what to do next or how to do something and you want to test each of them in turn

How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?
They're not great but they do provide a sort of aid memoire.  It would take a bit of practice to get used to them.

NOTES
git branch     shows available branches in this project
git branch [branchname] creates a new branch called [branchname]
git checkout [branchname] switches to the new branch

IF you checkout a commit by name instead of using a branch, you create a potentially unreachable head even if you commit it (unless you note down the name of the commit).  If you do this and THEN decide you want to turn this into a branch, you can (even later) use
git checkout -b [branchname] - this turns your current version into a branch.

There's a different version of git log to diagram branches (and the --oneline switch is quite dandy too)

git log --graph --oneline [branchname1] [branchname2]... 


MERGING BRANCHES

git branch - to make sure you're in the right place before you start (probably the master)

merge branch '[branch name to merge]' - merges the branches & creates a new commit then run 

git log - to see what happened.  Run to program to test...

git branch -d [branch name]  - deletes the branch LABEL you dont need any more.  The commits stay of course.

NEW COMMAND: git show [one commit only] - gives the changes made for just this commit (ie between this commit and its parent - which might not be the one shown last in the log because after a merge you get the commits in timestamp order).

What is the result of merging two branches together? Why do we represent it in the diagram the way we do?
Merging 2 branches means you have one version of the code including all the changes you want instead of having to choose between them.  

What are the pros and cons of Git’s automatic merging vs. always doing merges manually?
The auto merge saves a lot of hassle but is quite conservative so it shouldnt make too many mistakes.






